>> Mike North: Next, we're going to
extend on this service we've just built.
By making it so that only logged in
users make it into the teams page,
and only logged out users can
make it to the login page.
And we're gonna do this
using Ember's route and
hooks that are available for
us to customize there.
So let's look at the two routes
we created earlier in the course.
One was called teams,
one was called login.
And these are those jazz files
that are in the app/routes folder.
>> Mike North: Here we go.
There's nothing interesting here at
this point, and what we need to do
is understand there is a cycle of
functions that these routes invoke,
and these give us a convenient
customization points to use.
One, which we're gonna use, I think it's
in the next step or the step after that.
It's the model hook, and this is
typically what's used to fetch data.
So whatever this hook returns,
we're gonna be able to use in this
route template pretty easily.
We want to validate whether the user's
authentication state is good or
bad for a particular URL before
this model hook is called.
So there's another hook and
it's called before model.
>> Mike North: And this is a terrific
place to validate entry of
a particular route.
Because this is a hook, it's a method on
the base class where you are customizing,
we wanna call it the super
method in order to ensure that
it has a chance to do
everything that it might do.
I don't want anyone to worry too much
about what the default behavior is,
in this case it's not much,
but if you always call super,
you're unlikely to have a bad time.
If you try to prematurely optimize and
strip this out thinking that
nothing's there, nothing's there, we could
introduce something in the future, and
now you're missing it, and bad things
happen, and it could be confusing.
I also wanna point out that before model,
model, and
after model,
those route hooks are promise aware.
What that means is as the route does its
thing and it starts loading data and
doing everything that this route is
designed to do, in the event that
these functions return promises it will
wait for those promises to resolve.
Does this sound like any kind of now core
JavaScript language feature that exists?
>> Speaker 2: The asynchronous functions.
>> Mike North: Async functions, so we can
actually define this as async functions,
and that lets us do something
like a wait super before model.
And I'm getting, let's see, yes.
So we have to pass arguments,
in this case there's transition,
that's the only argument
that before model gets.
And a transition, it's just an object that
let's you, you could abort a transition,
we're not gonna worry too much about that,
but if you wanted a very rich login
experience you could actually kick
a user out to the login page.
And then once they successfully log in you
can send them back to the original URL
they had tried to access.
This would all be done via aborting
the transition and retrying.
It's just a little atom of state
that we use that represents
the attempt to get into this URL.
We just need to pass it straight
through in this case here.
So the next thing we wanna do
is we need authentication,
we need to know about that.
We need to know whether the current
user ID is there or not.
And how would we accomplish this?
Any ideas?
>> Speaker 3: Service.
>> Mike North: Service,
we gotta inject the service.
So import ( inject as service )
from Ember/service, and
down here we'll say service auth.
>> Mike North: Yeah, we can keep
that around, that's a nice import.
>> Mike North: That will be a good
JS dot thing, type AuthService.
>> Mike North: Now we just
simply need to say if this.auth,
>> Mike North: currentUserId, and
this is the team's route.
So I actually want this function
to sort of almost be a no op
if the current user ID is defined.
So if it's undefined, if it's I'm
gonna say this TransitionTo login.
>> Mike North: So this basically says do
the default stuff that Ember might do for
before model.
If the currentUserId is falsely,
kick them out to the login page.
They'll never actually
make it to the chat UI.
Let's experiment and see if this works.
Okay, so I'm on the teams page.
Logout is not wired up yet,
we'll do that in a moment.
I can imitate logout by just
deleting this from my local storage.
Guess I have to click the delete,
and now I wanna reload,
despite being on /teams, and
I find myself on the log in screen.
We've successfully kicked the user out,
and
I'm gonna copy this because we're gonna
need basically the same thing for
the login route, except we're
just gonna flip the condition.
Let me grab the imports in a second,
but we just need to say look, if you
are logged in you don't need the login
form, we'll send you straight to teams.
>> Mike North: Let me
grab those imports real
quick,
>> Mike North: And
we should be good to go.
So now let me try to log in,
which actually works, right?
We're saving that, sign in, all right,
and now let me try to go back to log in.
>> Mike North: Kicks me out to here.
Let me try deleting this.
Refresh, delete, and
we'll go back to login,
and this should allow me to go through,
and it does.
So there we go, this is using
a route hook to guard a route,
to make it so that only under the right
conditions should a user get in.